---
layout: post
title:  "Use The Silver Searcher with RSpec"
date: 2016-01-29
categories: code
author_name : Dave Moore
author_url : /about
author_avatar: dave
show_avatar : false
read_time : 2
feature_image: feature/landscape-007
show_related_posts: false
square_related: recommend-wolf
---

Working within an app so large that its test suite clocks in at just under 3 hours for a full run, even small local changes can result in unexpected spec failures. To combat failed CI builds, I often find myself searching around `/spec` for anything I might have missed.

It was during one of these recent "search and destroy" sessions when a thought came to me, "Searching with `ag` gives me a list of files. RSpec can accept a list of spec files to run. Why on earth am I not combining these two tools?"

After a little messing about, I arrived at:

{% highlight Bash %}
ag -l "some_search_term" ./spec --ignore "spec/fixtures" --ignore "spec/whatever_you_need_to_exclude" --ignore "spec/support" | xargs rspec
{% endhighlight %}

SHAZZAM!

The above command generates a list of files containing the search term and pipes the list to RSpec. Furthermore, it allows search by regex for provide even greater discoverability (Want to look for the `SomeModel` constant as well as a `:some_model` factory reference? No problem!).

It also allows for flexible exclusion of directories, files, extensions, etc.

The command has been a huge time saver for me, and while I'm sure I am not the first to pair these tools, I have not happened upon any articles outlining their combined use.

So, whether you're after improved discovery within a large test suite containing hundreds of spec files or just want an easy way to run all specs mentioning a specific term, hopefully this knowledge will come in handy!

Cheers!
